 
AKPASUBI MICHAEL  
PhoneNo:  +234(0)8121491738 , +234(0)9168287550  
 E-mail: akpasubimichael@gmail.com   
Address: Ikosi  Road , Ketu, Lagos, Nigeria . 
LinkedIn  Profile: https:// www.linkedin.com/in/michael -akpasubi -
239b18226  
 
PROFESSIONAL  SUMMARY   
 
Frontend Engineer with 4+ years’ hands -on experience  building and maintaining production web applications 
using React, TypeScript, Redux Toolkit, Tailwind, Zustand , and modern frontend tool s. Strong experience 
engineering production systems used by government agencies, fintechs, and enterprise teams.  
       AWS Certified (CCP & SAA) with proven ability to collaborat e across design, backend, DevOps, and 
product teams. Passionate about building efficient interfaces, driving UI performance, and delivering reliable 
features end -to-end. I enjoy solving UI problems, simplifying complex flows, and making apps faster and eas ier 
to use.  
EDUCATION   
University of Benin, Nigeria                                                            March  2019  – September  2023  
 Bachelor of Science, Computer Science.   
CORE SKILLS   
Frontend : JavaScript  (ES6+),  React.js,  TypeScript,  SASS,  Tailwind  CSS, Redux Toolkit, RTK Query, Next.js, 
Shadcn, Context API  
Version  Control  & Collaboration : Git, GitHub,  GitLab,  Bitbucket  
State  Management : Redux,  Context API,  Redux  Toolkit,  Zustand,  RTK  
Query  
Web  Development  Tools : Visual  Studio Code,  Webpack,  Postman, 
JetBrains  
CI/CD & DevOps : Docker, Jenkins, GitHub Actions, AWS Code 
Pipeline  
Database Technologies : MySQL,  DynamoDB, Firebase  
Cloud  Platforms : Amazon  Web  Services  (AWS)  
Product & Collaboration : Agile/Scrum,  RESTful  APIs,  Jira, Figma,  Prisma,  Neon,  Shadcn  
CONFERENCE/WORKSHOP  ATTENDED   
 DigiLink:  Improving  digital  capabilities  among  students  2023  
 DevFestLagos22’  2022  
 Dev Fest Lagos  24’ 2024  
 
 
 
 
 
INDUSTRIAL  EXPERIENCE   
Nigeria Inter -Bank Settlement Scheme ( NIBSS)         June  2025  – Present Frontend Developer  
 Worked on the development and optimization of external and internal frontend applications for log searching 
automation and controlled  database  access used by over 200+ staff and partner agencies , improving log search 
automation and reduc ing manual checks by 40%+
 Took ownership of frontend bugs and fixes, resolving 90% of assigned issues within SLA.  
 Wrote and maintained React -TypeScript code for dashboards, forms, tables, role -based access screens, and real -
time data views  
 Focused  on performance  optimization  and state management using  Redux, ensuring  smooth  data flow  and 
responsiveness across multiple web applications. 
 
Qucoon  Limited                                                                      May 2024  – June  2025  
Frontend  Developer  
 Built and shipped core features across multiple business -critical apps (CRM, Maker -Checker, Wellness platform) 
using React, TypeScript, and Redux. These updates improved workflow speed and increased overall user 
engagement by an estimated 20–30% . 
 Integrated multiple backend services and reduced API -related errors by ~40%  after adding better request 
validation and response handling.  
 Focused  on state management  through  Redux, ensuring smooth  data flow  and optimizing  performance  across  all 
components. Played a key role in building responsive UI/UX designs, ensuring accessibility and seamless user 
experience 
 Worked  closely  with backend  engineers  to integrate  complex  API services  for secure  data exchange  and 
processing,  ensuring
seamless  operation  between  frontend  and backend  systems.  
 
 
ipNX  Nigeria  Limited                                                                      March  – November  2022  
Application  Development  Support  
 Maintained  documentations  related  to applications,  including  user manuals  troubleshooting  guides  
and Standard Operating Procedures (SOP) 
 Helped resolve 100+  support tickets by identifying bugs and working with the dev team on fixes.  
 Improved documentation clarity, decreasing repeat user issues by 15–20%. 
 Participate d and performed  testing  and quality  assurance  activities  before  deployment. 
 Managed  and resolved  incidents  related  to applications  and prioritizing  them  based  on severity.
 Took  part with the team  of developers  with the routine  maintenance  of applications which  
sometimes included applying patches and updates 
 
 
PROJECTS  
CHOOSE  LIFE  WELLNESS  
Developed  a fully  responsive  health  and wellness  platform  focused  on fitness  tracking, meal  planning, and  
mental  wellness resources. Utilized React and  Redux to manage  user interactions, implementing  an intuitive interface  
that adapts seamlessly  across devices. Integrated backend APIs to provide dynamic content delivery, ensuring a 
personalized experience for users.  
 
 
QOONITY  
Built a dynamic frontend for an application pl atform  that allows users to input entities, attributes, and other necessary 
elements to generate  customized  Kotlin  code. Used React to  create  an interactive  and user-friendly  interface  that enables 
seamless user input and code generation. Implemented funct ionality to allow users to download the generated Kotlin code 
directly from the platform, enhancing the development workflow.  
 
NIBBS  CRM  
Developed  a robust  CRM  solution  for NIBSS to  optimize  customer relationship  processes  and improve  
engagement with  real- time data updates.  
Integrated  backend  systems like  Teams  for meetings  to support  seamless  customer data management  and real-time 
analytic s. 
AI RESUME  ANALYZER  
Developed  an AI-powered  resume analysis  tool that scans  and evaluates  resumes  based  on job 
descr iptions, providing insights on keyword relevance and skill matching.  
Built the application using React for the frontend and integrated AI -based algorithms to assess the quality of resumes and 
provide feedback  to candidates for optimization. Ensured  smooth  user experience  with intuitive  form  design  and real-time 
results, enhancing the recruitment process for hiring managers and job applicants.  
 
TRAVEL  BUDDY  
Developed  a Travel  Planner  application  to help users  plan trips, find  destinations, and  connect with  fellow  travelers  based  
on interests and destinations. Utilized NextJs and NextAuth to manage user data, interactions and authentication, creating 
an interactive and seamless experience. Integrated Google Maps API to provide travel routes, destination sugge stions, and 
itinerary management, enabling users to plan their trips efficiently.  
 
INVENTORY MANAGEMENT  SYSTEM  (IMS)  
Deployed  an outsourced  inventory  management system on  a Linux  server . Installed  all necessary  software  dependencies  
using Bash scripts . Implemented security measures, including configuring firewalls, applying access controls, and 
enabling encryption where required.  
VERIZON  CLOUD  PLATFORM  JOB SIMULATION  ON FORAGE  October  
2023  
 Completed  a Job Simulation  involving  a hypothetical  new VPN  product for Verizon’s  Cloud  Computing  
team
 Used  command  line Python  to test whether  Verizon’s  VPN  met the cloud  
native  traits which includes redundancy, resilience and least -privilege
 Researched  approaches  to achieve  application  security  and communicated  
insights  in a PowerPoint Presentation 
 
AWARDS  & HONORS   
 
● MTN  Science  and Technology  Scholarship  2021  
It is a scholarship  award  usually  given  to students  in their 2nd year in the university,  each recipient 
receives an annual payment of N200,000 from when they qualify till graduation  
 
● Byinks  Foundation  Scholarship  2019  
A scholarship  for undergraduates  in notable  universities  across  the country, that  assist  in the payment 
of tuition fees from when they qualify till graduation  
● AWS  Certified  Cloud  Practitioner  2024  
A prestigious  and globally  recognized  credentials  that validates  a comprehensive  understanding  of 
Cloud Computing fundamentals and the Amazon Web Service  (AWS) ecosystem.  
● AWS  Solutions  Architect  - Associate  2025  
A prestigious  and globally  recognized  credentials  that validates  a comprehensive  understanding  of 
Cloud Computing fundamentals and the Amazon Web Service  (AWS) ecosystem.  
 Certificate  of Meritorious  Participation  in the Cowbellpedia  National  Mathematics  2015  
Competition  
A recognition  certificate presented  to students  with excellent  performance  in the competition  
 

